five underrated seo lessons i've been
doing seo for a very long time i started
when i was 15. i'm 37 that's 22 years to
be exact and i know there are a lot of
stats and data out there about seo and
what works and what doesn't but in
today's video i'm not going to bore you
with all that instead i want to share my
personal experiences and i want to tell
you what i've learned over the years and
what you can take from it to do better
most these lessons aren't common and you
probably haven't heard of them before
lesson number one
updating content frequently is better
than building more links i know you need
links to rank so if you have no links go
out there and build stuff look i have
friends that have websites that generate
hundreds and thousands of dollars a
month in affiliate income and we have
clients from all around the world so we
see tons of data on what works and yes
you needed links but links only take you
so far we found that if you build less
links but you update your content more
frequently you do way better when it
comes to seo perspective and when i mean
updating i'm not talking about word or
two or image or hearing there i'm
talking about adjusting that page to be
the best for your users and whatever
that takes better than your competition
in other words just think about
wikipedia and how often they update
their content it's based on what's best
for the users not for google
but in the long run funny enough that
helps with google because google's
optimizing for users as well so spend
more time updating the building links
especially if your established website
if you're a new website there won't be
much content on your website you
probably don't have many links focus on
building more links
lesson number two
shortcuts just aren't worth it so there
was a site called battlefield bypass
which is expired domain with a lot of
authoritative links these links were
naturally generated and not purchased
because it was a national park and it
was part of a war that happened on that
land so i bought it and i converted it
into online casino site years and years
ago when i started my seo career within
months i was ranking the top three
positions for the term online casino
that keyword is worth the hundreds and
thousands of dollars a month in
affiliate revenue that's millions of
dollars a year
that's a lot of money but within months
google whacked me and all of a sudden
that site lost all this rankings in
essence i was trying to cheat the system
by getting traffic and rankings by
cheating instead of providing value see
the sites that rank at the top in the
long run are the ones that provide the
most value not the ones that cheat their
way up to the top now i've learned a lot
from this mistake and others but
i had the shortcut mentality when i was
young and if i had to go back in time i
would stop taking shortcuts and i would
have done what's best for users which
would have been what's best for my
career
lesson three
it's easier for brands to rank
when i was younger i tried to fine-tune
my seo skills by learning every little
thing from on-page seo to off-page i
learned as much as possible and i still
do today but over the years i have
become wiser even though i still need to
learn a lot more
and i found that working with large
corporations at my ad agency np digital
it's taught me a lot one of the things
this taught me is
brand queries go a long way in google's
eyes and in their algo the more people
searching for your brand and assuming a
high percentage of them click on your
result it tells google that you have a
good strong brand and if your brand is
more popular than your competition it
tells google that people prefer you over
the competition and as your brand
queries keep going up what you'll find
is your rankings also go up once i
learned that i focus more on building a
brand it takes well over five years to
build a brand so you need to be patient
but it helps a lot with seo
lesson four the quickest way to grow
your seo traffic is by going global a
google employee once told me that the
majority of searches on google aren't in
english
that's obvious right and it was to me at
the time i'm like yeah the majority of
the world doesn't speak english what's
new with this but what she told me next
wasn't as obvious she's like yes neil
they don't speak english majora's
searches aren't in english but google
doesn't have enough web pages and all
these other languages for most topics
once that clicked i was like oh wait i
need to transcribe my content into
multiple languages so i started doing
that and i didn't say translating i said
transcribe the reason why is you have to
adapt it for the local languages
now the united states only makes up 25
or less of my traffic due to
international expansion
you should go global if you want more
seo traffic lesson five
don't purely rely on seo i used to
believe that seo was the best marketing
channel and because of that i focused
purely on seo at the beginning funny
enough i still prefer seo over other
channels but i don't think it is the
best marketing channel i don't think any
marketing channel is the best i now take
a different viewpoint all marketing
channels are great as long as you can
make them work for you and drive you
traffic brand awareness leads and even
sales
so i don't not focus on seo but i also
don't purely focus on seo i focus on all
marketing channels as well as new ones
that come up as long as i can make them
work
and if any of them get crushed by
platforms making an algorithm update i
don't have to worry because my traffic
sources are diversified
if you need help with your marketing
check out my ad agency np digital we're
the performance marketing agency here
because we provide amazing results for
our clients and i hope we can do that
for you as well so hit us up if you
enjoyed this video like it share it
subscribe to the channel if you have any
questions leave a comment i'm here to
help